---
layout: post
title:  "A voting day in a pinoy life"
author: freshten
categories: [ voting, personal-story ]
image: assets/images/blogs/photo-1522875850847-f1965f2bb288.jpeg
---
It has been a generation and yet we all lack the right to vote. I look at this system and these people who've been put in power. And we're like, you haven't been serving the people like you're supposed to be serving them. So as young people, how can we reclaim that? Who are you pulling up with you on this ladder? When it comes to voting? Are you taking a friend? Are you taking a cousin, family, member, a teacher, whoever? When we vote, we have to vote in numbers because it's just that powerful. I believe that people should vote because our future depends on it. It's simple as that. My parents were just always politically involved. They did always stress the importance to my siblings and me to be civically engaged. And so, I very much carried that through my life.


My dad would take me along with him to go block walk for the Obama campaign. And I was like the youngest person, as a short kid with braces. Like, I looked completely nerdy. And but I had so much fun knocking on doors and telling people to go to the polls and ask them if they're registered to vote. They were the ones who just planted the seed in me. And so now I'm just like off to the races just having fun with it. And the fact that we've been having-- we've been voting as a country for so long. And yet there are still groups left behind to this day is completely inexcusable. Who are you bringing with you into your group? who is going to also help create this change? One of the biggest things that we saw were long lines at polling places on election day. So, what we saw at elementary schools were people waiting for three, four, or five hours in line to vote, which is insane to me. And you know, some people especially parents, go to school full-time.


They work. And standing in line for three or five hours just isn't possible for a lot of people. And so that's just one of the ways that are deterring young people to vote. Another thing our voter ID requirements. They're very strict in the state. And in the Philippines, you can vote with your valid ID, but you can't get a valid ID without also a valid ID, which is wild. So, when we are talking about voting, this isn't just voting for the president or your representative in Congress. I mean, this is going all the way down the ballot. And the people who are state representatives, your state senators, the people going all the way down to the other end of the ballot, those people are extremely important. And those are the people who are making these laws when it comes to your vote. It's not lost on me that my ancestors, you know, worked extremely hard to just get a crumb of justice. And the fact that as someone right now, you know, in their 20's who is able to just continue to carry out this legacy for my people is a very moving thing.
